Alphabetic shift is a great algorithm and just I found I had a lot of fun with this one.
So what we're going to be doing here is we're going to take in a single input string such as crazy and
then we are going to shift everything forward forward by one letter.
Hence the name alphabetic shift.
So our C is going to become a dear r is going to become a s a b easy way.
And why is the how I did it.
I use split index of and join in.
So these are hints.
I've actually already thought of a better way of doing this since I originally solved it.
We'll talk a little bit about that in the solution.
All right.
So the way that I solve this was I created a string array in which I stored a single character from
English alphabet A to Z.
So I'm going to just go ahead and copy that over.
So we don't have to see everything that's going on here and I'll word wrap so that you can see it here.
So we're going all the way A.D.C. and comments.
And we're not we're not going to modify.
And what I want to do here is I'm going to create this string called Let input input shifted and this
is going to be equal to my cats and jump in.
So this is going to be equal to our input string
and then we're going to split it on each individual character like so.
And there's no reason for this line here.
So we now have it split up from here the way that I did my thinking was that I'm going to check that
value and if it's not equal does Z I'm going to get the index of that value and reset it plus 1 if it
is equal to Z.
I'm just set it to zero index to be a.
Because that's the only one where loose background everything else is just going one one forward.
So let's start there.
So say let.
Is equal to zero.
I's less than R and put shifted doesn't really matter if it's input shifted or input string will say
input shifted I plus plus
all right now that we're there we're going to create a constant called index vowel we're on the actual
reading this yeah we do index and we're this equal to zero.
So by default it's going to be equal to zero.
So we're here we're into is for us hey input shifted actually let's not do this out of order.
What are you using.
We're going to have a statement here that's going to check the character we're going to say is our input
shifted.
Z for instance.
Excuse me.
Why not equal equal to Z.
If it's not what we want to do in this case all our values are are lower case on our input string and
we're not worried about uppercase values but if we were we would have two to uppercase or two lowercase
in effect our logic here.
Now if it's not equal to Z.
What we know is that index value is equal to our alphabet index of which is going to return the index
value for our the value that we're checking
and then we're going to add 1 to that
assuming that changes index.
Now that we have that for one it's not easy.
And we've already initialized it to zero which would be the same value we would use for Z.
All we have to do here is go and say input shifted is equal to alphabet Plus the index value which is
going to be one more so you can shift it.
And at the end here.
Now that we've modified the array Oh do is join it back together and we're in turn our shifted array
and joined them back on every character and that should worked.
Where is our air in our logic here.
Sort of index index of
trowing which shift to it in the
put 50 plus plus.
Well that's fine.
Interesting.
So I have an error somewhere.
It puts strain and put shifted
for false and false and
where is our air.
All right.
On further review I made a simple mistake here where we get the index of value over alphabet and then
we just add one because we're not actually looking to get that index at character at this time.
Or instead just looking to get the index of that and then we shift.
And now we're good to go just a little bit of typing too fast for my own good.
So we'll be like that.
Let's go ahead and move on to the next one.
All right.
I'd mentioned that there is a way to actually make this faster depending on how we we did that and the
way that we could do it just right here.
We're having to look up every single element in this array with this index of We're reiterating through
that now in something with 26 characters.
It's not the biggest deal but it is a very easy way that we could fix this by instead of having an alphabet
like this.
And I haven't done this yet but so we'll type it out is we are instead going to just have an object.
And the reason that this is going to be faster is that when there are property keys in our case we're
going to essentially create a object that we then say is going to be equal to B B will b c Let's continue
on.
C is
Susan D.
We're going to create a dictionary essentially.
And
when we target this property we're going to set it to this value.
And this is a much faster way of doing this because we don't have to iterate through an array.
So I'm going to posit video type out a to z and the fix arko.
All right.
Now that we have this very long.
Ada Z back to a alphabet all we're going to do here is we're going to delete what's in here.
And now we're going to modify our string ever so slightly Surace input shifted on that index value is
equal to our alphabet.
And then we're just going to pass in the input shifted value
and that's going to be the key.
Now let's go ahead and just cancel the log and put shift it just so that we can see it right because
we changed a lot and you can see we get the C.
And so that C is going to return the value of D.
The Z is going to return the value of a.
Now there's a third way we can do this using ASCII.
But I have several other ASCII algorithms coming up and you can do that on your own if you find that
helpful.
This is a faster algorithm but even they ask evaluate ask you solution would be a better solution than
what we have here.